In the previous video, we already learn about
the concept of nat.
Now in this video, we are going to learn how to configure nat. Let’s just start.
But before configuring nat, first, we need
to configure default route.
What is that?
Actually default route is a static route,
but the destination will be all network.
So for example, from router 2 want to go to
google, if we configure static route,
the destination network will be 172.16.10.0/24,
but if we configure default route, the network
will be all network, which is 0.0.0.0/0, usually
default route is configured on the customer
router to internet.
Because in the internet, the network is very
much.
There is impossible to add static routing
to each network one by one, for example in
the internet there is a network of google,
facebook, youtube, twitter, Instagram, and
others.
So once again, this is impossible to add static
routing one by one to specific network.
This is why we will configure default route.
Let’s just start, let’s see the routing
table first, do show ip route, here we can
see that we don’t have a route to go to
google yet.
Now let’s configure default route, configure
terminal, ip route and then the destination
network is all network, which is 0.0.0.0 and
then the subnetmask is 0.0.0.0,
And then the next hop is the ISP, which is
10.20.20.1
Okay we have done, now router3 should be able
to communicate with google, let’s try, do
ping 172.16.10.2, okay here we can see that
this is success.
But from the client, the ping should be failed.
Let’s try, okay this is failed.
Remember that we need to configure nat on
the customer router so all client will able
to ping to internet or google.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to configure nat, so all
client will able to ping to the internet.
Thank you for watching and see you on the
next video .